security/can-exec/README.md, before:

can-exec
--------

This is a LSM in which the kernel calls a user-mode helper to decide if binaries should be executed.

Every time a command is to be executed the kernel will invoke a user-space helper:

```
/sbin/can-exec $UID $COMMAND
```

The arguments supplied are the UID of the invoking user, and the command they're trying to execute.  If the user-space binary exits with a return-code of zero the execution will be permitted, otherwise it will be denied.



## Installation & Configuration

First of all you'll need to build the kernel with this module enabled.  Since there have been changes to the Kernel recently, to allow LSM module-stacking, these are the settings I used for my own tests:

```
#
# Security options
#
CONFIG_KEYS=y
CONFIG_KEYS_COMPAT=y
# CONFIG_KEYS_REQUEST_CACHE is not set
# CONFIG_PERSISTENT_KEYRINGS is not set
# CONFIG_BIG_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_TRUSTED_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_ENCRYPTED_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_KEY_DH_OPERATIONS is not set
CONFIG_SECURITY_DMESG_RESTRICT=y
CONFIG_SECURITY=y
CONFIG_SECURITYFS=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_NETWORK=y
CONFIG_PAGE_TABLE_ISOLATION=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_NETWORK_XFRM=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_PATH=y
# CONFIG_INTEL_TXT is not set
CONFIG_HAVE_HARDENED_USERCOPY_ALLOCATOR=y
# CONFIG_HARDENED_USERCOPY is not set
# CONFIG_FORTIFY_SOURCE is not set
# CONFIG_STATIC_USERMODEHELPER is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SELINUX is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SMACK is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_TOMOYO is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_APPARMOR is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_LOADPIN is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_YAMA is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SAFESETID is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_LOCKDOWN_LSM is not set
CONFIG_SECURITY_CAN_EXEC=y
# CONFIG_SECURITY_HASH_CHECK is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_WHITELIST is not set
# CONFIG_INTEGRITY is not set
CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY_CAN_EXEC=y
# CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY_DAC is not set
CONFIG_LSM="yama,loadpin,safesetid,integrity,can-exec,selinux,smack,tomoyo,apparmor"
```

## Kernel Testing

Once you've rebooted into your new kernel you should be able to see that the module is compiled successfully and available by running:

```
$ echo $(cat /sys/kernel/security/lsm)
capability,can_exec
```

If you see `can_exec` listed, and you get output from this command you're good:

```
$ dmesg | grep LSM
[    0.282365] LSM: Security Framework initializing
[    0.283323] LSM initialized: can_exec
```

Finally you should also see the file `/proc/sys/kernel/can-exec/enabled` exists, and will have the contents `0` - as the module is not yet enabled.


## Setup User-Space

The goal of this module is that the kernel will invoke a user-space helper whenever a binary is executed.  The next step is thus to make that binary available.

* Install `/sbin/can-exec` from the [samples/](samples/) directory.
   * This will be invoked to decide if users can execute binaries.
   * The sample implementation will read configuration files beneath `/etc/can-exec`, but you could rewrite it to only allow execution of commands between specific times of the day, or something entirely different!

I have two configuration-files setup upon my system, one for `redis`:

```
root@kernel:~# cat /etc/can-exec/redis.conf
/usr/bin/redis-server
```

and one for the `nobody` user:

```
root@kernel:~# cat /etc/can-exec/nobody.conf
/bin/sh
/bin/dash
/bin/bash
/usr/bin/id
/usr/bin/uptime
```

That means:

* The `redis` user can execute __only__ the single binary `/usr/bin/redis-server`.
* The `nobody` user can execute:
   * `/bin/sh`
   * `/bin/dash`
   * `/bin/bash`
   * `/usr/bin/id`
   * `/usr/bin/uptime`

Once the user-space binary is in-place you can enable the enforcement
by running:

     echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/can-exec/enabled


## Links

There is some back-story in the following blog-post:

* https://blog.steve.fi/yet_more_linux_security_module_craziness___.html

Commit message:

Note you can't disable the module

security/can-exec/README.md, after:

can-exec
--------

This is a LSM in which the kernel calls a user-mode helper to decide if binaries should be executed.

Every time a command is to be executed the kernel will invoke a user-space helper:

```
/sbin/can-exec $UID $COMMAND
```

The arguments supplied are the UID of the invoking user, and the command they're trying to execute.  If the user-space binary exits with a return-code of zero the execution will be permitted, otherwise it will be denied.



## Installation & Configuration

First of all you'll need to build the kernel with this module enabled.  Since there have been changes to the Kernel recently, to allow LSM module-stacking, these are the settings I used for my own tests:

```
#
# Security options
#
CONFIG_KEYS=y
CONFIG_KEYS_COMPAT=y
# CONFIG_KEYS_REQUEST_CACHE is not set
# CONFIG_PERSISTENT_KEYRINGS is not set
# CONFIG_BIG_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_TRUSTED_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_ENCRYPTED_KEYS is not set
# CONFIG_KEY_DH_OPERATIONS is not set
CONFIG_SECURITY_DMESG_RESTRICT=y
CONFIG_SECURITY=y
CONFIG_SECURITYFS=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_NETWORK=y
CONFIG_PAGE_TABLE_ISOLATION=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_NETWORK_XFRM=y
CONFIG_SECURITY_PATH=y
# CONFIG_INTEL_TXT is not set
CONFIG_HAVE_HARDENED_USERCOPY_ALLOCATOR=y
# CONFIG_HARDENED_USERCOPY is not set
# CONFIG_FORTIFY_SOURCE is not set
# CONFIG_STATIC_USERMODEHELPER is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SELINUX is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SMACK is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_TOMOYO is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_APPARMOR is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_LOADPIN is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_YAMA is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_SAFESETID is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_LOCKDOWN_LSM is not set
CONFIG_SECURITY_CAN_EXEC=y
# CONFIG_SECURITY_HASH_CHECK is not set
# CONFIG_SECURITY_WHITELIST is not set
# CONFIG_INTEGRITY is not set
CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY_CAN_EXEC=y
# CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY_DAC is not set
CONFIG_LSM="yama,loadpin,safesetid,integrity,can-exec,selinux,smack,tomoyo,apparmor"
```

## Kernel Testing

Once you've rebooted into your new kernel you should be able to see that the module is compiled successfully and available by running:

```
$ echo $(cat /sys/kernel/security/lsm)
capability,can_exec
```

If you see `can_exec` listed, and you get output from this command you're good:

```
$ dmesg | grep LSM
[    0.282365] LSM: Security Framework initializing
[    0.283323] LSM initialized: can_exec
```

Finally you should also see the file `/proc/sys/kernel/can-exec/enabled` exists, and will have the contents `0` - as the module is not yet enabled.


## Setup User-Space

The goal of this module is that the kernel will invoke a user-space helper whenever a binary is executed.  The next step is thus to make that binary available.

* Install `/sbin/can-exec` from the [samples/](samples/) directory.
   * This will be invoked to decide if users can execute binaries.
   * The sample implementation will read configuration files beneath `/etc/can-exec`, but you could rewrite it to only allow execution of commands between specific times of the day, or something entirely different!

I have two configuration-files setup upon my system, one for `redis`:

```
root@kernel:~# cat /etc/can-exec/redis.conf
/usr/bin/redis-server
```

and one for the `nobody` user:

```
root@kernel:~# cat /etc/can-exec/nobody.conf
/bin/sh
/bin/dash
/bin/bash
/usr/bin/id
/usr/bin/uptime
```

That means:

* The `redis` user can execute __only__ the single binary `/usr/bin/redis-server`.
* The `nobody` user can execute:
   * `/bin/sh`
   * `/bin/dash`
   * `/bin/bash`
   * `/usr/bin/id`
   * `/usr/bin/uptime`

Once the user-space binary is in-place you can enable the enforcement by running the following command:

```
root@stretch:~# echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/can-exec/enabled
```

**NOTE**: As a result of #11 you cannot disable the module, once enabled.


## Links

There is some back-story in the following blog-post:

* https://blog.steve.fi/yet_more_linux_security_module_craziness___.html
